Exam 2
Potential Exam 2 Topics include:


TEMPLATES

  Understand the purpose and syntax of C++ templates

  Know that templates can be used for classes or functions

  Know what the compiler does when it processes a template

  Understand that a template might not necessarily work with 

     every possible type, and why (the type might require 

     certain methods to be implemented)

  Be able to read and understand templated code

  Be able to pick out "correct" syntax of templated code from

     incorrect syntax


RECURSION

  Know the role of the "base case" and why it is important

??  Understand that recursive calls put activation records on the

     runtime stack, and the implication of that

  Be able to "trace" recursive functions, to determine what they do

     and whether they work properly

??  Be able to write simple recursive functions, especially functions

     that we have seen directly in class (tree traversal, 

fib(n) = fib(n-1) + fib(n-2) if n >= 3

, summing

     an array, 

factorial(N) means N! In math

, etc.) 


TREES

  Know what it means for trees to be 
balanced, 
complete, 
full. 

  Understand BST's, how they work, how they're different from regular

     binary trees, and the runtime complexity of BST operations

  Be able to write code for pre-order, in-order, and post-order 

     traversal of a binary tree

  Understand how BST insert works

  Understand how delete on a binary tree works, what the three "cases"

     are, and how they work

  Recognize and be able to trace working code for delete (but I won't

     ask you to write it)

  Know that not all trees are binary trees


SORTING

  Understand all of the sorting algorithms that we do in class, what their runtime

  complexities are, and why.  

Quicksort, Mergesort, Bubble Sort, 

 Selection Sort, 

  Insertion Sort. 

I might even ask about the “recursive version" of the N^2 sorts.


RUNTIME COMPLEXITY

  Know why you can, and how to, remove constants and coefficients

     from instruction counts to determine runtime complexity

  Understand the basic "ordering" of runtime complexities

     O(1), O(log2N), O(N), O(Nlog2N), O(N^2), etc.

  Be able to look at code and determine its runtime

     complexity (Big O) 

  Be able to determine runtime complexity of an algorithm, given 

     a description of the algorithm

  You will NOT be asked to give EXACT counts of instructions, 

     but should be able to give rough estimates

  Know the runtime complexity of various algorithms we have 

     studied and worked on (for trees, lists, even sorting, etc.)

  Be able to determine the runtime complexity of recursive functions